The first pillar
in the well architected framework
is operational excellence.
So this is the ability to run and monitor systems
to deliver business value and to continuously
improve supporting processes and procedures.
So what are the design principles of operational excellence?
The first one is to perform operations as code.
That means using infrastructure as code.
So in AWS, that is going to be,
for example, AWS CloudFormation.
Also make sure to make frequent small
and reversible changes so that in case
of any failure, you can reverse it.
If you start making huge changes every three months,
things are not going to go well.
Also, refine operations procedures frequently
and ensure that all your team members
are familiar with these new operations procedures.
Anticipate failure but in case you have failure,
you need to learn from all these failures.
So failing is learning and of course,
if you don't take the feedback from your failures,
then you're not getting any better.
Finally, use managed services to reduce operational burden
and implement observability for actionable insights.
That includes performance, reliability, and cost.
So now, I'd like to just transcribe it
in terms of AWS Services.
And the first one is going to be prepare so prepare
is going to be how do we basically prepare everything
to have operational excellence?
So you should use runbooks,
you should have good infrastructure standards,
you should do run deployments and like mock deployments.
And for this we could use AWS CloudFormation basically,
to prepare everything as a nice infrastructure as code.
And then Config would be really nice as well to be using.
We haven't seen Config in depth in this course,
but Config could be used to evaluate
the compliance of your CloudFormation templates.
Then operate, you need to operate
and basically, automate as much as you can.
You should release fast, you should avoid manual processes.
So again, CloudFormation would be
a great tool for this, Config as well.
CloudTrail to make sure to track all the API codes
that are done and make sure nothing is done on purpose
or nothing is changed manually.
CloudWatch to basically monitor the performance over time
of your stack and make sure that if you need to operate it,
you know what operations to do.
And finally, X-Ray, it's not something we've seen in depth
in this course, but X-Ray will be able
to trace HTTP requests,
and to make sure that they're working correctly.
And if they're not working correctly, it will point us
to where the incorrect stuff happened.
Finally, you need to evolve your infrastructure
over time, so how do we do this?
Well, again, CloudFormation, as you understand,
CloudFormation is a centerpiece
of this whole operational excellence pillar,
but also you need to be able to evolve over time.
So all the CI/CD tools basically CodeBuild,
CodeCommit, CodeDeploy, CodePipeline,
allow you to basically iterate quickly,
deploy quickly, deploy often, deploy small changes,
and all these things will contribute
to operational excellence.
Now remember just going into the exam, you don't need
to understand and remember any of that.
I'm just trying to educate you to all
the AWS Services and how they can help
with this operational excellence pillar.
This is just educative, okay?
Have a read through the the pillar, by the way,
on the white paper if you want to,
but here I'm just trying to give you a small run down.
You don't need to remember all these services
and there's not this service correspond exactly
to that operational pillar or whatever,
but it's just to give you ideas of how
all these service can be used as a synergy
to basically drive operational excellence.
All right, so that's it for this lecture.
I will see you in the next one.